to Livejournal:

    Hey all!  Everybody seems to be making serious research blogs these days,
    so i decided to make a serious blog about my research into cocktail
    mixology.  It's called Resolution to Tonic, and you can find it at
    http://barspoon.tumblr.com.

First post:

    Subject: Tonic?  Resolved!

On December 30, 2010, i made a pilgrimage to Raleigh, North Carolina to visit one of my best friends from high school, accompanied by another one of my best friends from high school.  The objective?  To have the awesomest cocktail New Year's party ever.  And at that, i think we succeeded!

We succeeded so much, in fact, that i was inspired to make a novel New Year's resolution: to mix a new cocktail each week of 2011.  And i've been doing that now for 8 weeks and counting.

But what's the fun of a weekly challenge without a blog to chronicle one's adventures?  Hence, Resolution to Tonic: barspoon.tumblr.com.  (Many other blog services were considered, but tumblr was the obvious choice...)

So what do i mean by "one new cocktail each week"?  There is some room for interpretation, certainly.  In the second or third week, i delineated two variants:

        "Strict" variant: each new cocktail should be one i've never made
            before -- a brand new adventure!

        "Relaxed" variant: each new cocktail should merely be one that has
            not yet been committed to the list.

In some sense, the "strict" variant seems most in the spirit of these things, but even the "relaxed" variant ends up with 52 new cocktails in my recipe book, a most delightful outcome to be sure.  In the end, i decided that the "strict" variant would lead to too much inhibition -- i would actually feel *less* inclined to experiment during the week, since it would only make my future weeks more difficult.  So i decided to follow the "relaxed" variant, but with a strong leaning towards cocktails that were fresh and experimental -- i'm not going to have a "martini" week or a "daiquiri" week, since i've played with those drinks before.

Obviously, i'm going to have to "backdate" some posts, since i've already had 8 weeks of drink-making.  If i feel inspired, i may also make a few posts here and there about interesting ingredients and my experiences with them.  In any case, it should be barrels of fun :)

And so without further ado, i welcome you, to Resolution to Tonic!  May it inspire, enlighten, and refresh.
