How to Make Cocktail Cherries
(NB: not a drink)

First attempt: mid-June, 2013, with Rainier cherries that were starting to go
bad just before i went to San Francisco for a week.  Pitted them, popped them
in a small jar, and topped with maraschino liqueur.  Tonight, 07-09-2013, i
tried them (was a little afraid to, but they seem to be okay!) -- they are
*waaay* boozy.  Maraschino liqueur is not that sweet compared to cherries,
i guess :P

They came out kind of shrively and with a suboptimal texture.  Those wonderful
Luxardo cherries have a firm skin and a bursty bite -- these did not.

--

Second attempt, 07-09-2013: in typical William fashion, i read every single
recipe i could find online for every single search term i could think of
(e.g., "make maraschino cherries", "make cocktail cherries", "make brandied
cherries", etc.).  Then i sort of overcame inhibition, took the best of all
recipes, used my own intuitions, acted in the moment, and who knows what'll
happen?

So my plan was to make a spiced syrup Jamie Boudreau-style, and soak some
cherries in that, plus a bit of brandy.  Then i was going to do another batch
with just maraschino liqueur, the traditional way.  But in both cases, i was
going to blanch the cherries first.  As it turned out, i had enough syrup to
cover two half-pint jars worth of cherries, so then i just topped one off with
brandy and one off with maraschino liqueur.  I bet they will both be delicious..


Ingredients:

1 bag cherries (i used regular-ass dark sweet cherries.. sour cherries might be nice, too?)

(blanchy ingredients)
1/2 cup salt
6-8 cups water

(syrupy ingredients)
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup water
1 cinnamon stick
5-6 cloves
some freshly-grated nutmeg
(plus 10ish cherry pits from pitting)
    [ NB: quasi-optional, since they *technically* contain cyanide... but hey,
      what's a cocktail without a little danger?  an element of toxicity... ]

2-3 oz booze of choice (e.g., brandy, maraschino liqueur, bourbon)
[i tried brandy and maraschino liqueur]


Directions:

Step 1: boil 6-8 cups water with 1/2 cup salt.  Blanch the (unpitted) cherries
for 3-4 minutes -- careful not to cook them!  Strain, rinse thoroughly, and
plunge into an ice-water bath to arrest heating.  (The purpose of this step is
to draw some water out of the cherries [later to be replaced by boozy sugar!]
and to prep the skin to be more permeable.  Supposedly blanching will result in
a firmer cherry at the end of the day.. i kind of believe it, but we'll see.)

Step 2: stem and pit the blanched cherries.  Reserve 10 or so pits for the
syrup.  Put the pitted cherries into a couple sterilized mason jars.  (I used
old Green Mountain Gringo half-pint mason jars.)

Step 3: combine syrupy ingredients over medium-high heat, stirring often until
all sugar is dissolved -- don't let it boil!  (This step is basically making
spiced 2:1 simple syrup.)

Step 4: strain still-hot syrup over pitted jarred cherries.  Leave some room at
the top (1/4 to 1/5 of the total volume).  I found that the recipe above makes
enough to cover two half-pint mason jars of cherries.  Top off with booze of
choice, for uh, booziness, and um.. preservation.

Step 5: refrigerate for like, a week or two.

Step 6: Enjoy!  Repeatedly.


So far, i've done up to step 4.  Like i said, i made one jar using brandy, one
jar using maraschino liqueur.  My plan was to not use syrup in the maraschino
one at all, but i wound up with more syrup than expected.  It's probably better
this way anyhow...


References:

cobbled together from many sources.  A big one was StriperGuy's recipe from
a Chow Hound thread (http://chowhound.chow.com/topics/652611).  Also, there's
some serious chemistry going on at Darcy O'Neil's Art of Drink blog post on
the topic (http://www.artofdrink.com/blog/maraschino-cocktail-cherries/).
Darcy also has an interesting post about cyanide in cherry and apricot pits
(http://www.artofdrink.com/archive/research/cyanide-in-apricot-cherries-pits/).
