Violet Fizz (http://projects.washingtonpost.com/recipes/2009/05/06/violet-fizz/)

1 1/2 oz gin
1 oz lemon
1/2 oz creme de violette
some egg white

Top with seltzer.  Garnish: lemon peel.

The recipe online called for a tablespoon of egg white, but i've never had
good luck trying to split any quantity from a whole egg white -- if you don't
get the right components, it won't add texture.  (Beating lightly might help
here?).  So anyway, i tried a whole egg white.  That was kind of a lot..
Ideal might be: make two at once, with a single, whole egg white.

Seemed unbalanced at first -- too dry -- but i came around to it in time.  I
do think it could possibly benefit from a dash of simple, or perhaps limoncello,
if it wouldn't negatively impact the color too intensely (blue is nice..  but
green?).

To be served at Truly Irate Science Party Halloween 2012 as the Ghostly Essence,
in tiny round boiler flasks.

10-31-2012: tried it again in the tiny flasks.  I made two of them with one egg
white and poured it into 3 flasks; worked remarkably well!  You can even get a
little lemon twist sticking out the neck of the glass, which is even possible to
drink through.  And swirling it around creates wonderful little ghostly shadows
and tendrils.

Still a bit too much egg white.  To try: whipping some egg whites ahead of time
and using a measured quantity thereof.  Tablespoon?

07-21-2013: Added a lemon salt rim to make a "Tears in the Rain", for watching
Blade Runner.  (Zest half a lemon into a small plate of salt, spray some oils
from peels taken from the other half, mix around, and let sit.)  (Lemon bitters
would have been an appropriate addition to the drink, too, but i didn't have
any.)  Blue, sweet, a little salty, a little bitter.  Like tears.. in rain..

FWIW, whipping the egg white totally worked!  A tablespoon (1/2 oz) per drink
was about right.  Two egg whites yielded enough for 5-6 drinks.  (It was about
2-1/2 oz, actually; the second batch had just 1 oz total, a bit less, but still
plenty for mouthfeel and frothy texture.)

This is now probably the most diverse drink i make, in terms of being able to
be named whatever is thematically appropriate for the party of the moment :)
