Monkey Gland (from Cocktail)

1-1/2 oz [alt: 2 oz] gin
1-1/2 oz [alt: 1 oz] orange juice
1/4 oz grenadine
absinthe rinse

Garnish: orange peel

10-11-2012: Made this for the first time using home-made grenadine (10-11-12!).
I thought it was too orange heavy, but Lizzie liked the sweetness, and thought
that the orange complemented the anise from the absinthe rinse nicely -- less
orange might not have balanced it as well.  Maybe just more gin?

For my money, i'd like to try more gin, less orange -- maybe 2 gin, 1 orange --
and see if that makes a more aperitif-appropriate rendition.  As far as
specifics, i used Hendrick's (which might have been too unassertive against
the orange -- maybe Beefeater for its citrus notes instead?) and a Pernod
rinse (Cocktail calls for anis, but then talks in the sidebar about absinthe;
i think it was published when absinthe was still illegal in the US, so maybe
it's worth experimenting).

---

10-15-2012: Tried it with 2 gin, 1 orange.  As Lizzie suspected, the anise
flavor stood out a bit more with the decreased orange complement, but overall,
i think it was a net-positive tweak.  Should be careful to toss out excess
absinthe in order to avoid having it overpower the drink.

The grenadine was still rather light in this drink, leading me to hypothesize
that the Cocktail authors expect a stronger-flavored grenadine than the home-
made one that we produced (1:1 pomegranate juice to sugar, with two tablespoons
of pomegranate molasses; see also the notes in my Clover Club description).
In fact, noticing that 2 gin, 1 orange, 1/4 grenadine was exactly the same
proportions as the unbalanced Clover Club i made last night, i was intentionally
heavy-handed with the grenadine -- it was probably more like 3/8 oz rather than
1/4 -- and it was still largely dominated by the orange juice flavor.  To try:
2, 1, 1/2.  (The gin, i think, was not overpowered; though i used Beefeater 24
tonight instead of Hendricks.)

The grenadine did poke its head out occasionally, and was really nice when it
did.

---

2014-02-01: Made these for Cinema Salon (La Jetée, 12 Monkeys), with the 2:1
gin:oj ratio -- also preferred by Robert Hess.  Forgot to check my notes first,
which would have led me to expect the overpoweringness of the absinthe.  Would
have done a bit more grenadine and a bit less absinthe.  (I did incorporate the
absinthe into the drink directly as a 1/4 oz pour.)  Maybe: 2, 1, 2 tsp, 1 tsp.
(2 tsp = 1/3 oz > 1/4 oz, while 1 tsp = 1/6 oz < 1/4 oz.)
