Ramos Gin Fizz

1 1/2 oz gin
1/2 oz lemon
[1/2 oz lime]
1 tsp simple syrup
[1 more tsp simple syrup]
[yet 1 more tsp simple syrup]
2 oz heavy cream
1 egg white
3-4 drops orange flower water

top with soda

Shake all ingredients except soda, first "dry", then with ice for 12 minutes
(to attain the proper foamy consintency).  Pour into a fizz glass (like a
highball glass -- tall, small, straight sides), leaving about an inch at the
top.  Top with soda, stirring to build height with foam.

Orange flower water is key!  Makes the whole thing kind of orange creamsicley,
but not overly orangey.

We actually tried shaking 12 minutes and then later a second batch for only
6 minutes.  No real difference... Should try flash blending as recommended
by Cocktail, since it might actually work *better*, and it'd certainly be
easier.

NB: ingredients listed in [brackets] are not part of the Cocktail recipe, but
all "original" Ramos recipes seem to include lime.  If you add the lime, you
need to double the simple syrup for balance.  Possibly increase the gin and
decrease the cream -- it's not a very strong cocktail otherwise, and the cream
might be a bit much.  2 oz gin, 1 oz heavy cream?

[update 01-19-2012: 2 oz gin, 1 oz heavy cream: works beautifully!  It's a more
serious, less creamy concoction this way.. depends on how much of a dessert you
want.  3 minute shake this time, btw, and it came out just fine.  Also, shaking
a soda bottle while holding your palm over the top and spraying a tight stream
out the edge makes for a wonderful and tasty head.

8 did say he thought it could use more sweetness.  So maybe up that 2 tsp to a
full 1/2 oz (i.e., 1 tbsp)]

Featured at Womcave Carnival Cocktails 2012, 04-21-2012, using "ginnier"
variation explained above, reproduced below.  Everybody who got one loved
it -- jgrafton, rlambert, Car's Ben/Crusher (who just asked for "the best
thing on the menu").

Ramos Gin Fizz, ginnier version

2 oz gin
1/2 oz lemon
1/2 oz lime
1/2 oz simple
1 oz heavy cream
1 egg white
3-4 drops orange flower water

Froth, shake, strain into fizz glass, top with soda, create head.
Garnish: lemon twist.
