Sazerac

2 oz rye
3 dashes Peychaud's
absinthe rinse
optional: some sugar
flamed orange peel

Variations: no simple syrup, 1 tsp simple syrup, .5 tsp simple syrup (preferred)

Update, 11-09-2012:
As of Election 2012 (Nov 6), i think i have perfected the preparation technique.
Drop one sugar cube (= 1/2 tsp, as it turns out!) into the bottom of your mixing
tin, and douse with 3 dashes Peychaud's.  Mash up until dissolved (using either
a muddler or a barspoon).  Add 2 oz rye and swirl around a bit.

Scoop up a quantity of ice in your cheater tin (or other suitable vessel), and
splash with a bit of absinthe.  Swirl around to coat the ice, then strain into
a chilled old fashioned/rocks glass -- the small remainder left on the ice will
flavor the drink, while the splash in the glass should be used to coat the sides
thoroughly.  Discard any excess (but not too vigorously).

Dump the (now absinthed) ice from the cheater tin into the mixing tin and stir
as usual until ice cold.  Strain into the (also absinthed) rocks glass.  Flame
an orange peel over top, caress the rim with excess oils, and drop into the
drink.

Serve with a smile.  Optionally, add a single large ice cube (an ice brain works
well for the "Spooky Sazeraction at a Distance" :)) to keep the drink cool.

Choice of absinthe seems to have a surprisingly influential effect.  I'd always
made them with Herbsaint as per tradition, but it's a *really* nice drink with
Lucid absinthe -- the light, floral notes meld well with the slight sweetness
from the sugar, and the deeper, herbal notes buddy up with the Peychaud's
fennel, resulting in a highly complex yet very well-balanced bright red potion
of deliciousness that'll keep 'em comin' back for more.

Choice of rye is less consequential.  Michter's led to a spicier drink, iirc,
but Old Overholt certainly held its own.  Bulleit may have been optimal?  Can't
remember for sure.

It's interesting to me that i wound up rediscovering the 1/2 tsp sugar idea
independently of the last time i wrote in this file (03-15-2011, looking at the
date -- over a year and a half ago!).  I actually had a dream about sazeracs,
in which i was in New Orleans, at some hotel, and all my NO buddies were there
(i only remember Nels, though), ordering "s'acs".  I kind of asked at one point
whether that meant -- i mean, obviously it did -- "sazerac", which was met with
a tepid sort of "uhh, yeah..."... later, the bartender said, "Wait, when you all
keep ordering s'acs, that just means... bourbon, water, and.." --> "Saccharine,
yeah," answers Nels.  Welp... goes to show how much i know about this town!  All
my out-of-towner prejudices, etc.  Then i wound up missing the tail end of the
morning drink hours (morning drink hours?  i love this town...), so i had to
wander the hotel to try to find a bar that would still serve me a proper sazerac
(vague memories of uh.. some hotel/resort in Phoenix that we tried to schmooze
and drink at when Brian and i visited Derek for New Year's last year).  Never
did manage to find the right place, in that elusive "in another castle" sort of
quality that dreams often have.  But i woke up knowing -- for days, even -- that
the perfect sazerac involved just a bit of sugar, a not-too-harsh rye, and a
nice, light, pale absinthe.  I think that was over the weekend, and it wasn't
until Tuesday that i managed to actually reify the idea, but wow was it worth
the wait.

(I'm wordy tonight because we went to Acacia, Embury reborn.  It's a theme that
seems to keeps coming up -- everything old is new again.  Re-perfected Sazerac,
alternately envisioned Corpse Reviver #2 and Martinez, re-discovered Vesper,
Embury arisen like a phoenix from the ashes... good times, Marty.. good times..)
